# Five Learning Weeks Reflective Journal

	For five weeks we have been learning an effective consultancy skills in a new concept called Flawless consulting by 
following some steps through the consulting process, steps including interpersonal, technical and even consultants skill, by 
the end, these steps aim to build commitment and reduce the chance of losing the client along the way.

	In the first week we started to learn important definitions and distinctions about the consultancy itself to understand
what we will go through, and then we discovered some consultants skills like contracting, diagnosis and decision but the most
important thing I've learned in the first week is that any consultant must have an interpersonal skills, skills like listening 
and communicating. These skills will make the consultant able to have the initial contact with the client, especially because 
the initial contact with the client will directly affect and determine the success or failure of the whole consultation 
process.
So, these interpersonal skills will help me as a consultant, to gain the client's trust. then I will be able to continue in 
the rest of the consulting phases and implement my other consulting skills in decision making and also my technical skills as 
a data scientist.

	In the second week, we continued to learn about the consultancy skills and the roles of the consultant with the 
differences between the internal and external consultants. But the most impactful thing I've learned is the thinking 
beyond the content, I figured that it's not just about providing a professional solution to the client, it's also important to 
talk about what I can do and what is possible without being very optimistic or even think about my own needs. Therefore the 
realistic and applicable solutions will impact and make sense to the client and will influence him to commit and move on. 
Also, this will lead to a collaborative relationship with the client and remove any possibility to face obstacles or being 
in a dilemmas situations, and by the end this will make more opportunities to get this client involved and to reduce 
resistance and increase probabilities of success of the consultation process.
So for me as a consultant, I have to think beyond the content this will make a collaborative relationship with the client, 
and I know that I have been successful when this client commits an action, cause the impact of consulting is measured by the 
client’s commitment to act on the suggestions given.

	In the third week, and after thinking beyond the content, a bigger concept show up which is ‘Being Authentic’ aim to 
behave with the client authentically. And in the week I have learned that it is very important to be authentic when dealing 
with the client to avoid feeling unimportant or treating my work in a trivial matter. This also will lead to avoid the client 
having any perception that I am everything he was looking for. And in the end, in the consultation process, the relationship 
is more important than the content. I find the idea of being in an authentic behavior is the most powerful thing I could do 
to have the client’s trust and the leverage that i’m looking for to build client commitment. While non-authentic behavior 
means Lower trust and leads to lower leverage and lower client commitment.
For this week for me as a consultant I have to keep in mind that any change could be faced with reaction and resistance, 
so I have to accept that as something happens naturally without taking it personally. And when I act in an authentic behavior 
will help me in building trust with the client and the trust will lead to remove this resistance and operate flawlessly to 
achieve the final project objectives.

	In the fourth week, we moved to learn about the discovery model to solve a problem, because the consultant might 
face technical or business problems and this is the nature of the domain, but what really matters is how this problem will 
be managed. because the way this problem is managed has a powerful effect on the way of the consultant’s expertise will be 
used. And I find it is challenging for the consultant to make the client open for the next stages of the consultation process, 
especially for the discovery process because this stage is very important in problem solving. Therefore this will help in 
managing any obstacles in the discovery phase or any other phase in the consultation process.
So, regarding to this concept as a consultant I have to know the problem that I'm facing either it is a technical or business 
problem and I must be authentic when dealing with the client, this could affect the way this problem is discussed and how 
fast this problem could be resolved.

	Finaly in the fifth week, we have learned about the professional bodies and their conduct of codes and also about 
some related concepts in the domain like internet issues, computer misuse and business compliance and privacy in aim to 
protect the data and the privacy and freedom of information.
I learned that there are professional bodies in every field, they generally have many responsibilities like setting the 
standards, advice the governments, providing courses on specific areas, providing compulsory professional development, 
publishing a professional journal and even conducting research. Those professional bodies for example ‘in data science’ 
they will make sure that they apply the rules in the field. for example, rules like confidential information and misconduct, 
those two rules directly affect data security which is the most important thing in data science.
All this for me as a professional consultant, I knew that I have to take the responsibility to guarantee the codes of 
conducts to be implemented to avoid any kind of rules breaking. And also to keep in mind issues like internet misuse, 
computer misuse, and data misuse and in the end, these will help in business compliance.
